beam-site/src/contribute/docker-images.md, before:

---
layout: section
title: 'Beam Docker Images'
section_menu: section-menu/contribute.html
permalink: /contribute/docker-images/
---

# Docker Images

Docker images allow to create a reproducible environment to build and test
Beam. You can use the docker images by using the provided [Docker scripts](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/java/build-tools/src/main/resources/docker).

In this directory you will find scripts to build and run docker images for
different purposes:

- [file](#file-based-image): Create a Docker container from a Beam source code .zip file
  in a given environment. It is useful to test a specific version of Beam,
  for example to validate a release vote.

- [git](#git-based-image): Same as file but the Beam source code comes from the git repository,
  you can choose a given branch/tag/pull-request. Useful to test in a specific
  environment.

- [release](#release-image): It builds an end-user distribution of the latest version of Beam
  and its dependencies. Useful for end-users who want to have a ready to use
  container with Beam (Python only for the moment).

## File based image

If you want to build a container with a ready JDK 8 environment to test Beam:

```
cd file/openjdk8
docker build -t beam:openjdk8 .
```

When you run the image it downloads the specific version of Beam given the
environment variables. By default it downloads the source code of the latest
master. If you want to download the latest master and execute the tests:

```
docker run -it beam:openjdk8 mvn clean verify -Prelease
```

If you want to have an interactive session you can run a bash prompt:

```
docker run -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

Inside the container you can test a specific module by running Maven. You
have to change MODULE_PATH for the given module path. For example to test
HBaseIO you should write its path `sdks/java/io/hbase` in the place of
MODULE_PATH:

```
mvn --projects MODULE_PATH clean verify -Prelease
```

### Configuring the runtime via the environment variables

You can run different versions of Beam by passing the specific environment
variables:

`URL`: The URL with the file containing the specific source code.  
`SRC_FILE`: The downloaded file name.  
`SRC_DIR`: The name of the directory inside of the zip file.

For example to run a Docker container with the exact code of the release 2.0.0:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi?filename=beam/2.0.0/apache-beam-2.0.0-source-release.zip&action=download" \
  -e SRC_FILE="apache-beam-2.0.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="apache-beam-2.0.0" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

If you want to run a container with a specific version e.g. 2.1.0-RC1:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://github.com/apache/beam/archive/v2.1.0-RC1.zip" \
  -e SRC_FILE="v2.1.0-RC1.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="beam-2.1.0-RC1" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

*Notice that SRC_FILE is different from SRC_DIR because github replaces the 'v'
character in the internal name of the zip*.

To run a container with the source code during a vote:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/beam/2.1.0/apache-beam-2.1.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_FILE="apache-beam-2.1.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="apache-beam-2.1.0" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

### Testing in an specific environment with your own source

You can also overwrite the volume containing the source code of Beam from a
directory in your host machine. This is useful to test your code with different
versions of Java.

If you have the code in the ~/workspace/beam directory and you want to quickly
test it with Beam you can do:

```
docker run -v ~/workspace/beam:/home/user/beam -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

### Performance improvements

The docker image does **not** contain the Java dependencies and this could make
the execution of the commands in the image take more time than expected. One way
to speed this up is by mounting a directory with the dependencies as a Docker
volume. The following command shows how to mount the host machine directory
for Maven dependencies `~/.m2` in the container:

```
docker run -v ~/.m2:/home/user/.m2 -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

You can also use an empty directory instead of `~/.m2` if you want to create a
different environment from the local one to share it between runs.

**Maven Improvements:**

You can also speed the execution by adding environment variables to Maven, for
example the MAVEN_OPTS environment variable may speed up compilation:

```
docker run \
  -e MAVEN_OPTS='-client -XX:+TieredCompilation -XX:TieredStopAtLevel=1 -Xverify:none' \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

Maven does not execute on multiple cores by default; to do this you have to
enable the threading execution:

```
mvn --threads 1C ...
```

## Git based image

It creates a docker container with a cloned version of the git repository, its
branches and all the pull-requests. When it is run, it updates and checks out
the specified branch/tag/pull-request.

You can choose the branch to execute via the environment variable:

`BRANCH`: The name of the specific branch, tag or pr to check out.

By default it checks out master from the github repo, but if you want to check
a specific pull request `ID` you can build the image like this (you must change
`ID` for the number):

```
cd git/openjdk8
docker build -t beam:git .
docker run -e BRANCH=pr/ID -it beam:git /bin/bash
```

## Release image

The release image is a container with the needed requirements to run Beam out of
the box in a container, or to submit a pipeline to execute on Google Cloud
Dataflow. To build it run:

```
cd release/python2
docker build -t beam:python2 .
```

Commit message:

Add TODO with linked JIRA to update Docker documentation for Gradle.

beam-site/src/contribute/docker-images.md, after:

---
layout: section
title: 'Beam Docker Images'
section_menu: section-menu/contribute.html
permalink: /contribute/docker-images/
---

# Docker Images

> Note: There is an open issue to update this page for Gradle:
[BEAM-4117](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/BEAM-4117).

Docker images allow to create a reproducible environment to build and test
Beam. You can use the docker images by using the provided [Docker scripts](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/java/build-tools/src/main/resources/docker).

In this directory you will find scripts to build and run docker images for
different purposes:

- [file](#file-based-image): Create a Docker container from a Beam source code .zip file
  in a given environment. It is useful to test a specific version of Beam,
  for example to validate a release vote.

- [git](#git-based-image): Same as file but the Beam source code comes from the git repository,
  you can choose a given branch/tag/pull-request. Useful to test in a specific
  environment.

- [release](#release-image): It builds an end-user distribution of the latest version of Beam
  and its dependencies. Useful for end-users who want to have a ready to use
  container with Beam (Python only for the moment).

## File based image

If you want to build a container with a ready JDK 8 environment to test Beam:

```
cd file/openjdk8
docker build -t beam:openjdk8 .
```

When you run the image it downloads the specific version of Beam given the
environment variables. By default it downloads the source code of the latest
master. If you want to download the latest master and execute the tests:

```
docker run -it beam:openjdk8 mvn clean verify -Prelease
```

If you want to have an interactive session you can run a bash prompt:

```
docker run -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

Inside the container you can test a specific module by running Maven. You
have to change MODULE_PATH for the given module path. For example to test
HBaseIO you should write its path `sdks/java/io/hbase` in the place of
MODULE_PATH:

```
mvn --projects MODULE_PATH clean verify -Prelease
```

### Configuring the runtime via the environment variables

You can run different versions of Beam by passing the specific environment
variables:

`URL`: The URL with the file containing the specific source code.  
`SRC_FILE`: The downloaded file name.  
`SRC_DIR`: The name of the directory inside of the zip file.

For example to run a Docker container with the exact code of the release 2.0.0:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi?filename=beam/2.0.0/apache-beam-2.0.0-source-release.zip&action=download" \
  -e SRC_FILE="apache-beam-2.0.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="apache-beam-2.0.0" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

If you want to run a container with a specific version e.g. 2.1.0-RC1:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://github.com/apache/beam/archive/v2.1.0-RC1.zip" \
  -e SRC_FILE="v2.1.0-RC1.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="beam-2.1.0-RC1" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

*Notice that SRC_FILE is different from SRC_DIR because github replaces the 'v'
character in the internal name of the zip*.

To run a container with the source code during a vote:

```
docker run \
  -e URL="https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/beam/2.1.0/apache-beam-2.1.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_FILE="apache-beam-2.1.0-source-release.zip" \
  -e SRC_DIR="apache-beam-2.1.0" \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

### Testing in an specific environment with your own source

You can also overwrite the volume containing the source code of Beam from a
directory in your host machine. This is useful to test your code with different
versions of Java.

If you have the code in the ~/workspace/beam directory and you want to quickly
test it with Beam you can do:

```
docker run -v ~/workspace/beam:/home/user/beam -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

### Performance improvements

The docker image does **not** contain the Java dependencies and this could make
the execution of the commands in the image take more time than expected. One way
to speed this up is by mounting a directory with the dependencies as a Docker
volume. The following command shows how to mount the host machine directory
for Maven dependencies `~/.m2` in the container:

```
docker run -v ~/.m2:/home/user/.m2 -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

You can also use an empty directory instead of `~/.m2` if you want to create a
different environment from the local one to share it between runs.

**Maven Improvements:**

You can also speed the execution by adding environment variables to Maven, for
example the MAVEN_OPTS environment variable may speed up compilation:

```
docker run \
  -e MAVEN_OPTS='-client -XX:+TieredCompilation -XX:TieredStopAtLevel=1 -Xverify:none' \
  -it beam:openjdk8 /bin/bash
```

Maven does not execute on multiple cores by default; to do this you have to
enable the threading execution:

```
mvn --threads 1C ...
```

## Git based image

It creates a docker container with a cloned version of the git repository, its
branches and all the pull-requests. When it is run, it updates and checks out
the specified branch/tag/pull-request.

You can choose the branch to execute via the environment variable:

`BRANCH`: The name of the specific branch, tag or pr to check out.

By default it checks out master from the github repo, but if you want to check
a specific pull request `ID` you can build the image like this (you must change
`ID` for the number):

```
cd git/openjdk8
docker build -t beam:git .
docker run -e BRANCH=pr/ID -it beam:git /bin/bash
```

## Release image

The release image is a container with the needed requirements to run Beam out of
the box in a container, or to submit a pipeline to execute on Google Cloud
Dataflow. To build it run:

```
cd release/python2
docker build -t beam:python2 .
```
